📘 The Code Magazine

The Basic Language of the Web: HTML

Posted by Laura Jones on Monday, June 21st 2027

All modern websites and web applications are built using three fundamental technologies: HTML, CSS and JavaScript. These are the languages of the web.

In this post, let's focus on HTML. We will learn what HTML is all about, and why you too should learn it.

What is HTML?

HTML stands for HyperText Markup Language. It's a markup language that web developers use to structure and describe the content of a webpage (not a programming language).

HTML consists of elements that describe different types of content: paragraphs, links, headings, images, video, etc. Web browsers understand HTML and render HTML code as websites.

In HTML, each element is made up of 3 parts:

The opening tag
The closing tag
The actual element
You can learn more at the MDN Web Docs.

Why should you learn HTML?

There are countless reasons for learning the fundamental language of the web. Here are 5 of them:

To be able to use the fundamental web dev language
To hand-craft beautiful websites instead of relying on tools like Worpress or Wix
To build web applications
To impress friends
To have fun 😃

Hopefully you learned something new here. See you next time!




 Week 1: HTML/CSS/JS Projects – Omnifood + The Code Magazine Project: AI-Powered Food Website (Single Page)  Built using HTML, CSS, and JavaScript – no frameworks.  Created a simple educational page to display Information and visuals for HTML, CSS, and JavaScript basics. urls(https://app.netlify.com/projects/omnifood-aqsa/overview , https://app.netlify.com/projects/inspiring-sopapillas-f45ebc)   Week 2: Node.js CRUD Operations , Week 3: Material UI Table + React Component Development (Displayed dynamic data from API patient-list, and progressNotes) Week 4: Fetching External APIs  Integrated external Patient APIs using axios in React. 


Monthly Report:
1) Create and design a login page.
if a user enter url without trying a signin it will redirect to the sigin page.
Handle indirect users gracefully.
2) Deployment in local environment.

3)if a user directly access the app without login using url then it will redirect to the login page.

4) Endpoint for geting patient with the patientId.and also fetch on frontend plus design a card to show patient name , gender and dob.


todays task 
add dob on card 
make changes in claimsheet

433087



pm2 stop syncare-backend
upload the zip to syncare-backend
cd /home/syncarewarshad/public_html/syncare-backend
pm2 start syncare-backend
pm2 logs
nano controller/progressNotetype_controller.js
change t -> T
CTRL O, CTRL M, CTRL X


npm run build

upload zip to syncare-frontend
extract
move the contents to base directory which is syncare-frontend

systemctl restart nginx

669395
371044
611366
882834
155181
601371
765346
357159
314706
588770


Medication screen
order by start date, dsc
description schedules , dose , frequency 
merge strength and dum
remove actions btn

progressnote table

time: ptrogressnote type , progressnote


we add two filter 1) progressnote type 
2: date dropdown have three opt
3days bydefault
1week
1month
all

create template for soap note 
Description: 3 empty line
vitals:  date ,type ,value


todays task:::  16/7/25

✅changes push on GitHub

 Medication screen
✅order by start date, dsc
✅description schedules , dose , frequency 
✅merge strength and dum
✅remove actions btn


todays task::: 17/7/25

✅progressNotes ko thk krna hai.
✅patient card ka ui betr krna hai.


todays task:::: 18/7/25
✅patient sidebar ko thk krna hai.
we add two filter 1) progressnote type 
2: date dropdown have three opt
3days bydefault
1week
1month
all


